<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Task//EN" "task.dtd">
<task id="t_Tethering_verify">

	<title>Verifying your camera for tethering (UNIX and Linux)</title>

	<abstract>
		<term conref="../Concepts/c_Overview.dita#c_Overview/product_name"/> uses
			<indexterm>gphoto2</indexterm>gphoto2. Therefore, gphoto2 must fully support your
		camera. <p><xref href="../Glossary/g_glossary.dita#tethering">Tethering</xref> is supported only for a limited number of cameras. </p>You need to
		troubleshoot if you receive the following message in the <xref href="../Glossary/g_glossary.dita#tethering">tethering</xref> view.<p/><msgph>no camera
			with tethering support available for use</msgph></abstract>
	
<taskbody>
<prereq>
<p>Verify the following things.</p>
<ul>
<li>gphoto2 is installed on your computer.</li>
<li>Your camera is connected to your computer.<p/></li>
</ul>
</prereq>
	
	<steps>
	  <step><cmd>Verify that gphoto2 detects your camera</cmd>
	  <info><codeblock>LANG=C gphoto2 --auto-detect</codeblock></info>
	  <stepresult>You can see whether gphoto3 detects your camera.</stepresult>
	  </step>
	  
  <step><cmd>Verify camera driver abilities</cmd>
  	<info><codeblock>env LANG=C gphoto2 --port usb: --abilities</codeblock></info>
  	<stepresult>Verify that <msgph>Capture choices</msgph>" ability supports Image and  that  <msgph>Configuration support</msgph> is <msgph>yes</msgph>.</stepresult>
  	</step>	  
	  
	  
    <step><cmd>Verify camera remote capture</cmd>
  	<info><codeblock>env LANG=C gphoto2 --port usb: --capture-image-and-download</codeblock></info>
  	<stepresult>This step captures an image and download it to your computer if your camera is supported.</stepresult>
  	</step>
  	
  	<step><cmd>Verify camera tethered capture </cmd>
     	<info><codeblock> env LANG=C gphoto2 --port usb: --capture-tethered</codeblock></info>
     	<stepresult>This step downloads your images to your computer after you pushed the shutter on the camera.</stepresult>
  	</step>
  	
	</steps>
	
	<postreq>For more information, see the  page <xref href="https://redmine.darktable.org/projects/users/wiki/Supported_cameras" format="html" scope="external">Supported cameras.</xref></postreq> 
	
	</taskbody>
</task>
